**scan_code=0;** // Scan code of the last pressed key---------------------------------------
.

This global variable always indicates the scan code of the **last pressed key** in the last frame of the game.

The **scan_code** variable will be at **0** if no key has been pressed in the previous frame of the game.

This variable is often used to wait in a program for the user to press any key with a statement similar to the following one:

  **WHILE (scan_code == 0)**

      **FRAME;**

  **END**


This statement indicates that, while no key has been pressed in the previous frame (while **scan_code** equals **0**), the frames of the game must continue to be displayed.

The **scan codes** are simply a numeric list of the PC's keys. These codes can slightly vary (in any key) regarding different keytables, as there are keytables of different languages, with a varied number of keys, etc.

However, almost all the codes of the main keys remain constant. There is a predefined list 
of constants (synonymous for these codes)
in the language that can be seen by accessing the help about [keys codes](key_codes.md) (or keytable scan codes). These numeric values will precisely be assigned to the **scan_code** variable when the respective keys are pressed in the program.

---------------------------------------


### Important There is another predefined global variable, called [ascii](global_ascii.md), which also contains the code of the last pressed key. But, unlike **scan_code**, this new variable stores the **ASCII code** (character) generated by the key. This indicates **which character has been generated by the last pressed key** and not **which key has been pressed** (like **scan_code**).

Access the help about the [keys codes](key_codes.md) to observe a **sample program** with the **ascii** and **scan_code** variables.

The [key()](key().md) function of the language is normally used in order to verify whether a key is being pressed or not. This function receives one of these [keys codes](key_codes.md) as a parameter, and returns **0** if the key is not pressed or **1** if it is pressed.

---------------------------------------
See: [Global data](predefined_global_data.md) - [ascii](global_ascii.md) - [key()](key().md)

